# gateway-api beta

[[EA]][[06-01]]
> Hey, chatting with some of the other TAP folks, I’d like to set a goal that we get net-gateway-api to beta in Knative in time for the 1.6 release (12 July 2022) for inclusion in [[tap]] 1.3 (2 Sep 2022). This should un-block integration testing with Avi and Tanzu Service Mesh, which have been customer requests but aren’t really reasonable for upstreamto test.
> If you drop all your other responsibilities (and do some pairing with Dave), do you think that’s achievable? It would look like:

- Define the beta requirements
- Break down into tasks
- Track the tasks on a GitHub project
- Have parity between Istio & Contour via Gateway API
- Documentation on Knative.dev about installing via Gateway
- Integration tests (probably in Serving) to detect backsliding

---
Mark Fisher
could also be a supply chain that uses the kantive net-gw-api
wrt the httproute stuff that does not use knative
- demos:
  - https://vmware.slack.com/archives/C021B90DLMA/p1653039818013419
  - https://vmware.slack.com/archives/C021B90DLMA/p1654087852529479

---
[[EA]] [[05-26]]
- When is gateway going to go beta and ga?
- list we need to do to keep up with compatibility so knative can also declare  that?
- getting knative run continuously in the upstream integration tests
- would be nice to retire the knative tests in favor of just running the gw-api test, but gw-api needs to be ga

## Reading
- [Contour joining Envoy Gateway - Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PXX5x0j1a4dYajlkkb1BiEBEx7Y3CQW6XnS71hh-T-8/edit)
- [Notes on API First - Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yoDFxj24fyjHYvfch4OzYXGmRhM7OJOIlId7y1UkLho/edit)
- [API First Development on Tanzu - Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YSXMvIyDDD9QVSCKg7ql7gmdcO_8c_Lhm_wF_qq2IJ0/edit#)
- [TAP API-First Technical Requirements & Strategy - Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z1tNvsBc8cKbxJeK0nt4rDQxNkHNPwzOnqb5y2Ku3xg/edit)
- [TAP API-First MVP Proposal - Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1x8WOuP_2uorjp3p53Yr--SpS6wwkLsiDhnRcf29AJag/edit)

## Others
From [[MF]]:
- [Project EVE](http://eve.vmware.com/home)

## Questions
[[MF]] [[05-05]]
- how does the httproute get configured?
  - httproute is a gw api object.
- are we at the point where contour and istio can be swapped?
- how do the optional features of gw-api get surfaced and configured in knative?
- open api specs - are they going to follow it?  @questions
  - it would be useful at the knative level? to have it associated with the knative route?
    - knative route might be needed for things like indicating readiness
- will the knative http route resource
- what does knative bring to the table post gw-api @questions
  - revisions management
  - map services to multiple http routes
  - something to tie the routing configuration and revisions together
  - service is the single entry point
    - but, could stampout http route as opposed to knative http route

03-10
how will knative configuration work with say contour, able to pass thru the configuration
  - does it have any additional configuration?
  - non knative deployments could also use the httproute config
  - gke - document fir installing knative


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[EA]: ../../collaborators/EA.md "EA"
[06-01]: ../daily-logs/06-01.md "June 1st, Wednesday"
[tap]: tap.md "Tap"
[05-26]: ../daily-logs/05-26.md "May 26th, Thursday"
[MF]: ../../collaborators/MF.md "MF"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"